Fung, Chun Lam
A12158802
Assignment 3
Worked with Lu, Dexi

Problem 1

The two processes running as root on our Unix system are ¡°kernel_task¡± and ¡°biometrickitd¡±. ¡°kernel_task¡± is the kernel of OS X and has the highest privileges of all processes since it handles context switching; thus, it requires root privileges for process management. ¡°biometrickitd¡± is the process controlling the biometric fingerprint authentication scanner. On the 2016 and 2017 versions of the Macbook Pro, this process essentially replaces the need to manually enter a password. Thus, when any command is executed under root privileges and prompts the user for a password, the process will need to be able to fulfill the security check normally done by entering a password. Furthermore, this process needs to be able to securely store and retrieve the fingerprint in locations only accessible by root privileges.

Problem 2

Two executables on our system that are owned by root and have the setuid bit set are ¡°App Store.app¡± and ¡°Boot Camp Assistant.app¡±. ¡°App Store.app¡± requires root privileges in order to install new applications as well as update the operating system itself. ¡°Boot Camp Assistant.app¡± requires root privileges in order to partition the available hard drives and storage devices on the system, create the OS image, and installs the OS onto the different partitions.

Problem 3

The security alert from MacOS X triggered by downloading applications from the Internet is concerned about both the application¡¯s integrity and confidentiality. Untrusted applications should not make any unauthorized modifications to protected information or process and they should not be given unauthorized access to view protected information.

Problem 4

Since the auto-grader is cleared up to Instructor level, according to the BLP model without the HWM principle, the auto-grader can only produce the report at Instructor level because it cannot write to a lower level. Therefore, the report generated by the auto-grader will be labeled at the Instructor level.

Problem 5

As opposed to Problem 4, with the HWM principle the auto-grader will start at the lowest level, Public level. It will then require the privileges of Student level to be able to view the Student¡¯s solution since it cannot read content from a higher level. Now, the auto-grader is at Student level, and the report it produces will be labeled with Student level because it cannot write to a lower level.

Problem 6

Yes, since the auto-grader at Instructor level has privileges to read anything at a lower level, it will be able to read the solution of the next student. The report will still be labeled at the Instructor level.

Problem 7

Yes, however, the auto-grader will need to raise its privileges to TA level in order to read the next student¡¯s solution. Thus, when the report is produced, it will be labeled at the TA level.

Problem 8

For this scenario, we included an extra layer for the BLP security lattice: Group Level. Although working in pairs is optional, each student will be required to assign themselves to a group (of one or two) in order to separate confidentiality between student pairs.
